There's something built into cloud code
that barely anyone knows about and the
ones who do barely use it to its full
potential. And the irony is it's like
having a personal concurge from Claude
Code. One that knows every slash
command, every hook, every instruction,
and everything that you need to know
about how the latest and greatest
versions of Claude Code operate. All you
have to do is tag it, ask whatever you
want, and it will do all the heavy grunt
work for you. So, in this video, I'm
going to walk you through the five
different levels of using it to its
fullest potential. So, if you've been
relying solely on YouTube videos and
Googling to understand Claude code and
all of its nuances, then this will
change the way you learn. Let's jump in.
So, despite how powerful this feature
can be, it's actually unbelievably
simple and comes out of the box with
each and every instance of Cloud Code.
And that is the Claude Code Guide. And
this is an existing sub agent within
cloud code whose sole role is to be
acquainted with each and every part. But
what most people forget is that you can
actually tag existing files, things that
aren't working as expected. And you can
have the claude code sub agent guide
understand how to diagnose the problem,
assess it, and actually go and read the
documentation to fix it itself. And if
you don't believe me, then stick with me
to level five and I'll show you exactly
how you can do that. So this example
repository here is one that I've made up
and I've purposely designed it so that
each and every part of it has something
that's either missing, broken, or could
be improved. In this case, I have a
broken hook. And if you don't know what
a hook is, it's basically some activity
that fires whenever a certain event
happens in cloud code. In this case, if
you can read the name of this hook, it
happens post tool use. So let's say
there's some tool that's invoked, the
tool would execute, then something would
happen. What that something is is
completely up to you depending on your
agentic workflow. But you'll see that
instead of you having to do the dirty
work and understanding how to learn more
about hooks, you can actually employ the
sub agent to do it for you. But before
we get to that, let's go and click on
continue these settings. And then I'll
show you a simple use case of using the
claude code agent. I'm going to tag the
claude code guide right here. And we're
just going to paste the following. How
do I change my model midsession? So how
would you change from sonnet to mid
conversation going to opus? Very simple
question but the whole point is just to
show you how this works. So it spins up
a sub aent and the whole point of the
sub aent is to go and search different
parts of the claude code guides without
taking from your existing context
window. So all of these are being
fetched and then now it's already done.
It has 28,000 tokens. It's taken and
then it will bring back the response. So
you can see right here at the very top,
it tells you exactly what to do. Go and
use the /model command, switch to opus,
and then you're good to go. And you can
even ask it more conceptual questions
such as, "How do claude MDs work? Can
you tell me if I can have a global cloud
MD and then a CloudMD within folders and
then a local version? How does that
work? Can you explain it to me like I'm
10 years old?" And then you can send
this over and instead of just constantly
going through tutorial hell and learning
five different people's versions, many
of which are derivative of each other,
how something works, you can go to the
source and there you go. You have
CloudMD explained like your 10. It walks
through the concept. It walks through
the different hierarchy of using CloudMD
and it shows you exactly what different
directories might look like. And if you
didn't know this, by the way, you can
use CloudMD in different places. You
don't just need one global CloudMD. And
then it goes so deep that it can give
you modular rules. So it can give you
more tips and tricks that only someone
whose sole role is to be an expert in
the latest and greatest version would
know. So if you ever want to get
unstuck, then this level alone is
sufficient for you. Now for level two,
we'll keep pulling on that claude MD
thread. We will tag the agent again
right here. Claude code agent, but this
time we'll do something a little bit
different. we will say look at our and
then we'll tag our claude MD right here.
So now we're tagging our actual cloud MD
in our local folder and beyond that
we'll just paste the rest of the prompt
here which says I keep having to repeat
myself to claude about how I want my
code formatted and where to save things.
Why isn't my Claude MD helping me?
What's missing? So now you can ask the
great Claude code guru to read your
Claude MD. And now that you and I both
know it's an expert at the different
ways to use it, it can diagnose it for
you. And then after a few minutes, we
get this where it diagnoses that it's
basically a readme file, but there are
no core instructions about how look at
italics right here. How you want things
done. So then it breaks down the
problem. It tells us exactly what's
missing from the cloud MD. In this case,
I have lack of instructions on code
formatting. We also don't have anything
on file organization rules, patterns,
antiatterns. It gives you examples on
exactly what your cloud MD should look
like, what to do and what not to do,
which if you remember prompt
engineering, the good old days, we used
to do negative prompting and positive
prompting. So beyond that, we have some
examples. It tells you exactly how you
would structure this and it gives you
some principles for you to follow. So
level three is about getting deeper
understanding about different mechanics
of cloud code that a lot of
non-technical people struggle with. And
one of those is hooks, which is why it's
going to be a recurring theme for the
next few levels. So let's say we ask the
following. We invoke the claude code
guide right here. And we paste this.
What types of hooks are available in
cloud code? I want to understand what
actions I can attach to automations. Can
I trigger something every time a file is
created, when a session starts, or when
claude edits something? Walk me through
what's possible. And the biggest pitfall
is how to adjust and create the JSON,
the JavaScript object notation that you
need for it to be executed the way you
intend. So, we'll fire this off and
we'll see the result. And there you go.
Without having any form of guesswork or
looking through documentation, you can
go through 17 different types of hook
events. And there are hooks you can
attach at the beginning of a session, at
the end of a session, right before you
compact, right before you submit a
prompt. everything you can imagine from
pre-tool use to posttool use. And once
you understand this, you'll never forget
it. And once you never forget it, you'll
start to be able to use cloud code,
especially with hooks, in a much more
creative way. Now, for level four,
instead of us constantly asking for
conceptualbased questions, let's get it
to actually do something. So, we will
tag the agent once more. We will paste
the following prompt. So, I want to say
I want to create a custom slashcomand
called slashstandup
that looks at what I worked on in my
last session and writes a three bullet
summary I can copy and paste into my
team's standup chat. Show me how to
create the file for this. And you know
what? We'll add one more piece actually
do it yourself and set up a relevant
hook. So now we want to think through,
we want to also check the documentation
to see the latest and greatest way to do
this in the latest version of Cloud
Code. And we'll come back and see what's
put together. And there we go. After
just a couple minutes, we have a slash
command set up and ready to go. And we
also have a hook for session start. And
this is the actual session start
notification. So it created a dialogue
box on my Mac OS so that every single
time I start a brand new session, I see
this notification. Now, is this useful
to us right now? No, but it's the idea
that it can go and peruse everything it
needs to to create everything you want
in terms of configuration. So, going
into level five, we've now seen this
feature answer any question, diagnose
problems, and even build things on our
behalf. But what happens when we have
existing problems in our folder that we
need a medic or a doctor to come fix?
So, let's spin up our cloud code once
more. You're going to see that we have
this error that we saw at the very
beginning. This is the hook error that
we're going to try to fix now in level
five. So, I'm going to click on continue
without these settings. We should get
our hook firing from level four. Let's
check. There we go. The hook is firing
because it's attached to the session
start. And let's customize a brand new
prompt. So, I'm going to tag the cloud
code agent. And then I'm going to say
take a look at and then I'll cheat here
by actually dragging and dropping these
files. this and let's say the plans
folder these past plans folder and
what's in here are a series of prior
plans that I hypothetically created. So
this would be the equivalent of you
storing your plan modes for multiple
sessions and storing those in a folder
which depending on what you're doing it
might be helpful to store that. So if we
close this let's paste in the following
prompt. So we already have the look at
portion and I'm going to paste the
remainder. Let me paste this. So my
archive hook saves plans with random
names like you know you can see here
dizzy purple flamingo jumpy velvet
penguin etc. And I want you to archive
plans in a certain way. So we have a
short description about what they're
about. So instead of flamingo it should
say something like add user off. And
then we want to read the first lines of
the plan to figure out the description
and then organizes them into past plans
sorted by date. So, not only do we need
a description that means something
that's not just an animal and then some
form of date and then storing that all
in an easy to use way and in under a
minute it does the following. It goes
through the documentation to understand
how to use hooks and plan files with the
latest versions. Then it diagnoses the
problems. So diagnoses that the hook is
missing some wrapper or some command.
And then here is the plan to adjust it
and how to fix the settings.json file.
Then it goes through, writes what it
needs to write, fix whatever it needs to
fix right here with this missing path.
And then it tells you that it renames
all the files from names of animals to
something actually more meaningful. And
then it all finishes all of this. And
how we know this actually takes effect
is if we open a brand new terminal and
do my command for DSP, there is only a
hook firing. There are no more problems
with the hook itself. So this can not
only diagnose, build, but do all of this
in real time while answering your
questions. And that's pretty much it. So
sometimes the most simple solutions are
the most powerful when you use them
properly. So hopefully you learned how
to use this to not only get unstuck, but
tag different files in your existing
folders that you can amend, resolve, and
improve to get the experience you've
always wanted. Now, if you want to snag
the prompts that I showed you in this
video, just in case to give you a full
blueprint on how to implement this, I'll
make them available to you in the second
link in the description below. And if
you want to go much deeper into cloud
code and be in a whole ecosystem of
people all learning how to master cloud
co-work and cloud code, then you want to
check out the first link in the
description below for my early aopters
community. And for the rest of you, if
this was a short, sweet, and concise way
to level up your cloud code game, I'd
beyond appreciate a like and a sub on
the channel. helps the channel and helps
me know that you like my stuff.